In order to include and compile SFQEDtoolkit into your Montecarlo or PIC code follow one of the following options,
according to the language your main code is written with.

- cpp:
    in principle you should be able to successfully compile the SFQEDtoolkit library by simply copying and pasting the src_SFQEDtoolkit_cpp folder, which is bundled with this SFQEDtoolkit's repository you downloaded from github, into the directory that corresponds to your compilation path. In this way, you are perfectly allowed to launch your usual makefile. The library is thought to be used only through the functions that are made available in the SFQEDtoolkit_Interface.hpp header file, an example of its usage is shown inside the example_cpp folder provided with the library (so please go have a look!), but you are completely free to bypass this "self-imposed restriction" and use the library as you please. If you choose to ignore the user interface introduced with SFQEDtoolkit_Interface.hpp, then bear in mind that the main methods of the library are defined in the class SFQED_Processes.
    In case you do not have any makefile you can always use the one available in the example_cpp directory. If you choose this option: open the example_cpp/makefile file and switch the variable "YOUR_COMPILATION_PATH" to the path where your code is stored, save and run make. But be careful (ATTENTION): it is very likely that you will need to compile your program with very specific compilator and/or linker flags (like those needed for openmp, for instance), so make sure to add those flags (it should not be too complicated). After the compilation the executable cpp_tester is produced.

- fortran:
    in this case things get a little tricky. First of all, the toolkit can be easily mounted on your fortran code by employing the "use SFQEDtoolkit_Interface" statement. This allows you to use all the functions defined in the SFQEDtoolkit_Interface.f90 file, provided inside the folder src_SFQEDtoolkit_fortran (please check the example_fortran directory to see a demonstration of its usage).
    Regarding the compilation instead, we need to produce a hybrid f.90/cpp executable. This is achieved by first compiling all the source files (both .f90 and .cpp) into .o object file using the -c option of the correspoding compiler. Needless to say, during this phase, if the files you are compiling are in different folders, remember to specify explicitly the path to those through the include -I/paths option. After the .o files have been created you need to link them to produce the actual executable. Inside the example_fortran dir we provided a makefile: if you open that file and change the "YOUR_COMPILATION_PATH" variable to the path where your fortran code is stored, then running make will automatically produce the .exe for you. But be careful (ATTENTION): it is very likely that you will need to compile your program with very specific compilator and/or linker flags (like those needed for openmp, for instance), so make sure to add all the flags you need. After the compilation the executable fortran_tester is produced.
