@Article{montefioriJCP2023,
author={Montefiori, Samuele
and Tamburini, Matteo},
title={SFQEDtoolkit: A high-performance library for the accurate modeling of strong-field QED processes in PIC and Monte Carlo codes},
journal={Computer Physics Communications},
year={2023},
month={Nov},
day={01},
volume={292},
pages={108855},
issn={0010-4655},
url={https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cpc.2023.108855},
keywords={Strong-field QED; Particle-in-cell codes; Monte Carlo method; High-performance computing; Nonlinear Compton photon emission; Nonlinear Breit--Wheeler pair production},
abstract={Strong-field quantum electrodynamics (SFQED) processes are central in determining the dynamics of particles and plasmas in extreme electromagnetic fields such as those present in the vicinity of compact astrophysical objects or generated with ultraintense lasers. SFQEDtoolkit is an open source library designed to allow users for a straightforward implementation of SFQED processes in existing particle-in-cell (PIC) and Monte Carlo codes. Through advanced function approximation techniques, high-energy photon emission and electron-positron pair creation probability rates and energy distributions are calculated within the locally-constant-field approximation (LCFA) as well as with more advanced models [Phys. Rev. A 99, 022125 (2019)]. SFQEDtoolkit is designed to provide users with high-performance and high-accuracy, and neat examples showing its usage are provided. In the near future, SFQEDtoolkit will be enriched to model the angular distribution of the generated particles, i.e., beyond the commonly employed collinear emission approximation, as well as to model spin and polarization dependent SFQED processes. Notably, the generality and flexibility of the presented function approximation approach makes it suitable to be employed in other areas of physics, chemistry and computer science. Program summary Program Title: SFQEDtoolkit (version 1.0) CPC Library link to program files: https://doi.org/10.17632/j7mhj3cg3m.1 Developer's repository link: https://github.com/QuantumPlasma/SFQEDtoolkit Licensing provisions: GPLv3 Programming language: C++, Fortran Nature of problem: The accurate simulation of strong-field QED processes in the interaction of particles or plasmas with strong electromagnetic fields is critical for present and future experiments with ultraintense lasers as well as to unveil the dynamics around compact astrophysical objects. State-of-the-art PIC and Monte Carlo codes implement strong-field QED processes by means of lookup tables, where the approximated function is evaluated on a fixed set of points. This typically results in numerical artifacts such as stairlike structures in the approximated function, and in a reduced efficiency when large size lookup tables are necessary. An easily implementable open-source accurate and efficient simulation tool is required to address problems at the high-intensity frontier of plasma physics and astrophysics. Solution method: Strong-field QED process rates and particle distributions are calculated by leveraging advanced approximation methods based on variable and function transformation, asymptotic expansions as well as Chebyshev polynomial expansions. This provides a numerically-stable and efficient approach that allows us to overcome all limitations of existing methods based on standard lookup tables.}
}